const dogFacts = {
  "French Bulldog": { "About": "French Bulldogs are compact, muscular dogs with distinctive bat-like ears and a friendly, adaptable temperament. Despite their stocky build, they're known for being playful companions who form strong bonds with their owners while requiring minimal exercise." },
  "Dachshund": { "About": "Dachshunds (aka Doxens and Weiner Dogs) are clever, curious dogs with long bodies, short legs, and an independent spirit originally bred for hunting badgers. Their courageous personality often comes packaged in three coat varieties: smooth, wirehaired, or longhaired, and they tend to be devoted to their families despite their sometimes stubborn nature." },
  "Beagle": { "About": "Beagles are scent hounds with exceptional noses, friendly dispositions, and boundless energy that made them excellent rabbit hunters. Their expressive eyes and gentle temperament make them wonderful family pets, though their tracking instincts can sometimes lead them to follow interesting scents with single-minded determination." },
  "Yorkshire Terrier": { "About": "Yorkshire Terriers are tiny dogs with big personalities, sporting beautiful silky coats that require regular grooming. Despite their small size, Yorkies are brave, confident, and often quite vocal companions who remain playful well into their senior years." },
  "Cavalier King Charles Spaniel": { "About": "Cavalier King Charles Spaniels combine the gentle, affectionate nature of a toy breed with the athleticism of a sporting spaniel in an elegant package. Their expressive eyes and sweet disposition make them natural therapy dogs, while their adaptable nature allows them to be equally happy going for walks or cuddling on the couch." },
  "Pembroke Welsh Corgi": { "About": "Pembroke Welsh Corgis are sturdy, low-slung herding dogs with fox-like faces and natural enthusiasm for activity and training. Despite their short stature, these intelligent dogs have remarkable athleticism and were historically used to drive cattle by nipping at their heels." },
  "Miniature Schnauzer": { "About": "Miniature Schnauzers are spirited, intelligent dogs with distinctive bearded faces and alert, high-energy temperaments. Their wiry double coats require regular grooming, but their smart, affectionate nature and minimal shedding make them popular companions for families." },
  "Shih Tzu": { "About": "Shih Tzus are charming companion dogs with flowing coats that were originally bred to be royal lap dogs in ancient Chinese palaces. Their friendly, outgoing temperament and adaptable nature make them excellent pets for various living situations, though their beautiful coats require consistent grooming to prevent matting." },
  "Pomeranian": { "About": "Pomeranians are vivacious, fox-faced toy dogs with thick, fluffy double coats and a distinctively perky personality. Despite their tiny size, they possess a bold, confident demeanor and an alert intelligence that makes them both excellent watchdogs and charming companions." },
  "Boston Terrier": { "About": "Boston Terriers are compact, muscular dogs with distinctive tuxedo-like markings and friendly, bright expressions that earned them the nickname American Gentleman. Their gentle, affectionate temperament combines with moderate exercise needs to make them adaptable companions for various living situations, from apartments to family homes." },
  "Havanese": { "About": "Havanese dogs are cheerful, silky-coated companions with a springy gait and a natural tendency to form strong bonds with their people. Their playful, social nature makes them excellent family pets, while their intelligence and eagerness to please makes them responsive to positive training methods." },
  "Chihuahua": { "About": "Chihuahuas are tiny dogs with enormous personalities, combining confidence, loyalty, and often a touch of sass in the smallest recognized dog breed. Despite their diminutive size, they form intense bonds with their owners and often display surprising boldness, intelligence, and longevity, frequently living 15 years or more." },
  "Shetland Sheepdog": { "About": "Shetland Sheepdogs are intelligent, agile herding dogs with beautiful flowing coats and a strong work ethic developed from their heritage as farm helpers in the harsh Shetland Islands. Their keen intelligence and eagerness to please make them highly trainable companions, though their sensitive nature means they respond best to gentle, positive reinforcement." },
  "Cocker Spaniel": { "About": "Cocker Spaniels are merry, medium-sized sporting dogs with beautiful, silky coats and expressive, soulful eyes that reflect their gentle temperament. Their versatility shines through in their ability to be both enthusiastic hunting companions and devoted family pets who typically form strong bonds with children." },
  "Maltese": { "About": "Maltese dogs are elegant, playful companions with flowing white coats and a graceful bearing that belies their hardy constitution. Despite their delicate appearance, they possess a fearless personality and lively spirit that has endeared them to people for thousands of years, making them one of the oldest and most beloved toy breeds." },
  "Pug": { "About": "Pugs are charming, compact dogs with distinctive wrinkled faces, curled tails, and a mischievous expression that perfectly matches their playful personality. Their sturdy build and even-tempered nature make them adaptable family companions, though their brachycephalic (flat-faced) structure requires careful attention to exercise and temperature conditions." },
  "Poodle": { "About": "Poodles are highly intelligent, elegant dogs with distinctive curly coats that come in standard, miniature, and toy sizes. Despite their refined appearance, they were originally bred as water retrievers and excel in various dog sports, combining athletic ability with exceptional trainability and hypoallergenic qualities." },
  "Bulldog": { "About": "Bulldogs are muscular, medium-sized dogs with characteristic pushed-in faces, loose skin, and an easygoing temperament that makes them excellent family companions. Their distinctive wrinkled appearance and waddling gait hide a gentle, patient nature that typically bonds strongly with children, though their brachycephalic features require owners to be attentive to heat sensitivity and breathing issues." },
  "German Shorthaired Pointer": { "About": "German Shorthaired Pointers are versatile, athletic hunting dogs with striking liver and white spotted coats and boundless energy. These intelligent, eager-to-please athletes excel at tracking, pointing, and retrieving both on land and in water, requiring ample exercise and mental stimulation to channel their natural working drive." },
  "Australian Shepherd": { "About": "Australian Shepherds are highly intelligent herding dogs with striking merle coats and strong work ethics that make them excel in everything from ranch work to dog sports. Their intense focus and problem-solving abilities require consistent training and plenty of physical and mental exercise, making them ideal companions for active households rather than sedentary ones." },
  "Miniature American Shepherd": { "About": "Miniature American Shepherds are small herding dogs with the intelligence and work ethic of their Australian Shepherd ancestors packed into a more compact frame. Their keen intelligence, trainability, and manageable size make them versatile companions for active owners, excelling in dog sports while requiring less space than their larger relatives." },
  "Siberian Husky": { "About": "Siberian Huskies are medium-sized working dogs with striking facial masks, erect triangular ears, and thick double coats bred to pull sleds across vast Arctic landscapes. Their independent, sometimes stubborn nature comes with boundless energy and a mischievous sense of humor, requiring secure fencing and significant exercise to prevent escape attempts and destructive behaviors." },
  "English Springer Spaniel": { "About": "English Springer Spaniels are medium-sized sporting dogs with gentle expressions, feathered coats, and a natural affinity for both water and field work. Their eager-to-please temperament and moderate energy levels make them adaptable family companions that excel at hunting activities while also being content with daily walks and playtime with their human families." },
  "Border Collie": { "About": "Border Collies are incredibly intelligent herding dogs with intense focus, athletic builds, and a remarkable ability to anticipate and control the movement of livestock. Their problem-solving capabilities and work ethic require substantial mental and physical stimulation, making them ideal for dog sports and active households but potentially problematic in environments that can't provide adequate outlets for their energy and intelligence." },
  "Brittany": { "About": "Brittanys are athletic, versatile hunting dogs with boundless energy and a natural pointing and retrieving ability that makes them exceptional bird dogs. Their friendly, eager-to-please temperament and medium size make them excellent family companions for active households, though their high exercise needs require regular outlets for their hunting instincts and athletic abilities." },
  "Basset Hound": { "About": "Basset Hounds are short-legged, long-bodied scent hounds with droopy ears and an exceptional sense of smell second only to the Bloodhound. Their laid-back, gentle demeanor contrasts with their stubborn streak and powerful tracking instinct, making them lovable companions who occasionally tune out their owners when an interesting scent captures their attention." },
  "Vizsla": { "About": "Vizslas are sleek, rust-colored sporting dogs with an elegant build and remarkable athleticism that reflects their Hungarian heritage as noble hunting companions. Their velcro-like attachment to their people and sensitivity make them exceptional family dogs, though their high energy and exercise requirements demand active owners who can provide plenty of vigorous daily activity." },
  "English Cocker Spaniel": { "About": "English Cocker Spaniels are merry, affectionate sporting dogs with silky coats, expressive eyes, and a gentle, trainable nature. Their moderate size and adaptable temperament make them versatile companions for families, excelling in both field work and as loving household pets while requiring regular grooming to maintain their beautiful feathered coat." },
  "Collie": { "About": "Collies are elegant herding dogs with refined heads, abundant coats (in rough or smooth varieties), and the intelligence and gentleness that made Lassie a beloved canine icon. Their natural sensitivity and devotion to family make them exceptional companions for children, while their herding heritage gives them both an intuitive understanding of household routines and occasional tendency to try organizing family members." },
  "Portuguese Water Dog": { "About": "Portuguese Water Dogs are robust, curly-coated working dogs originally bred to assist fishermen by retrieving gear and swimming messages between boats. Their intelligence, trainability, and hypoallergenic coat gained them prominence as presidential pets (the Obamas' dogs Bo and Sunny), though their high energy and need for mental stimulation require dedicated owners willing to provide consistent training and exercise." },
  "Dalmatian": { "About": "Dalmatians are distinctive, athletic dogs with unique spotted coats and a noble heritage as coach dogs trained to run alongside horse-drawn carriages. Their endurance and energy levels remain high into adulthood, requiring significant exercise and training to channel their intelligence and stamina positively, making them best suited for active households rather than sedentary environments." },
  "Australian Cattle Dog": { "About": "Australian Cattle Dogs are tough, compact herding dogs with speckled coats, remarkable intelligence, and a working drive originally developed for controlling cattle in Australia's harsh outback. Their intense loyalty and problem-solving abilities make them exceptional partners for dedicated owners, though their natural independence and high energy require consistent training and substantial physical and mental exercise to prevent boredom-induced mischief." },
  "Labrador Retriever": { "About": "Labrador Retrievers are friendly, outgoing sporting dogs with water-resistant coats and a powerful build that consistently ranks them as America's most popular breed. Their exceptional temperament combines intelligence, trainability, and a gentle nature, making them versatile working dogs in fields ranging from service and therapy work to hunting, search and rescue, and devoted family companions." },
  "Golden Retriever": { "About": "Golden Retrievers are intelligent, friendly dogs with lustrous golden coats and a gentle, eager-to-please disposition that makes them exceptional family pets and working companions. Their natural affinity for people and remarkable patience have made them ideal service dogs, therapy animals, and hunting partners, though their people-oriented nature means they thrive with human interaction and can develop separation anxiety if left alone too frequently." },
  "German Shepherd Dog": { "About": "German Shepherd Dogs are confident, courageous working dogs with athletic builds, distinctive erect ears, and remarkable intelligence that has established them as the world's leading police, military, and protection dogs. Their loyalty, trainability, and versatility allow them to excel in roles from family guardian to service animal, though their high energy and work drive require consistent training and mental stimulation to prevent frustration and problem behaviors." },
  "Rottweiler": { "About": "Rottweilers are powerful, confident guardian breeds with a distinctive black and tan coat pattern and an instinctive desire to protect their families. Their natural intelligence and calm assessment of situations make them excellent working dogs when properly trained and socialized, combining strength with a surprisingly gentle demeanor toward family members despite their imposing appearance." },
  "Cane Corso": { "About": "Cane Corsi are powerful, muscular mastiff-type dogs with ancient Roman lineage and a regal, confident demeanor that reflects their heritage as estate guardians and battle companions. Their imposing size is matched by their loyalty and protective instinct toward family, requiring consistent training from an early age to channel these guardian traits appropriately, making them best suited to experienced owners who understand the responsibility of owning such a powerful breed." },
  "Doberman Pinscher": { "About": "Doberman Pinschers are sleek, athletic protection dogs with a distinctive streamlined appearance and remarkable intelligence that makes them exceptional guardians and working dogs. Their natural loyalty and trainability belie their intimidating appearance, as properly raised Dobermans combine alertness and protection with a gentle, affectionate nature toward their families, forming strong bonds that make them attentive companions." },
  "Boxer": { "About": "Boxers are muscular, exuberant dogs with expressive faces, playful temperaments, and a natural affinity for children that makes them excellent family companions. Their combination of physical strength, endless energy, and patient disposition requires consistent training and plenty of exercise, rewarding owners with a devoted, sometimes clownish companion that remains puppy-like well into adulthood." },
  "Belgian Malinois": { "About": "Belgian Malinois are intense, highly intelligent herding dogs with tremendous drive, athleticism, and work ethic that have made them the preferred breed for elite military and police units worldwide. Their exceptional trainability and boundless energy require dedicated owners who can provide consistent mental and physical challenges, as these dogs thrive on having jobs to do and can become destructive if their needs for stimulation and purpose aren't adequately met." },
  "Rhodesian Ridgeback": { "About": "Rhodesian Ridgebacks are athletic, dignified dogs with a distinctive ridge of backward-growing hair along their spine, originally bred in Africa to track and bay lions. Their independent nature combines with surprising sensitivity and devotion to family, creating a loyal guardian that's protective without aggression but requires confident, consistent leadership due to their natural self-assurance and occasional stubborn streak." },
  "Chesapeake Bay Retriever": { "About": "Chesapeake Bay Retrievers are powerful, rugged sporting dogs with distinctive wavy, waterproof coats developed to retrieve waterfowl in the icy waters of the Chesapeake Bay. Their remarkable determination and protective instinct sets them apart from other retrievers, creating a more independent, sometimes territorial working dog that forms deep bonds with family while maintaining a degree of reserve with strangers." },
  "Weimaraner": { "About": "Weimaraners are elegant, athletic sporting dogs with distinctive silver-gray coats and striking amber or blue-gray eyes that have earned them the nickname Gray Ghost. Their intense devotion to their people can manifest as velcro-like attachment and occasional separation anxiety, requiring owners who can provide both substantial exercise for their boundless energy and consistent companionship for their people-oriented nature." },
  "Giant Schnauzer": { "About": "Giant Schnauzers are powerful, commanding working dogs with distinctive bearded faces and the intelligence that makes them excel in police and military work despite their relatively small presence in those fields compared to German Shepherds. Their natural protective instinct and high energy require extensive socialization and training from an experienced owner, rewarding this effort with a loyal, dignified companion capable of excelling in everything from obedience competitions to family protection." },
  "Bloodhound": { "About": "Bloodhounds are large, gentle scent hounds with wrinkled faces, pendulous ears, and an unparalleled sense of smell that makes their tracking abilities admissible as evidence in court. Their remarkable olfactory talents come wrapped in a package of affectionate goofiness and occasional stubbornness, creating a loving family companion whose single-minded determination when following a scent trail requires secure fencing and vigilant handling during walks." },
  "Airedale Terrier": { "About": "Airedale Terriers are confident, versatile working dogs with wiry coats and the distinction of being the largest of all terrier breeds, historically serving as military messengers, police dogs, and hunting companions. Their intelligence combines with the typical terrier independence and occasional stubbornness, creating a dog that's both capable and challenging, requiring owners who can appreciate their problem-solving abilities while providing consistent training to channel their natural confidence." },
  "Alaskan Malamute": { "About": "Alaskan Malamutes are powerful Arctic sled dogs with thick double coats, wolf-like appearance, and remarkable strength that allowed them to pull heavy freight in harsh northern conditions. Their independent, sometimes stubborn nature reflects their heritage making decisions in challenging environments, creating a dog that forms strong bonds with family while maintaining a dignified self-reliance that requires respect rather than dominance-based training approaches." },
  "Irish Setter": { "About": "Irish Setters are elegant sporting dogs with flowing mahogany coats, boundless energy, and a playful spirit that keeps them puppy-like well into adulthood. Their natural exuberance and affectionate nature make them delightful family companions, though their high exercise needs and occasionally distractible temperament require patient training and plenty of physical activity to bring out their best qualities." },
  "Bernese Mountain Dog": { "About": "Bernese Mountain Dogs are gentle giants with striking tri-colored coats, originally bred as versatile farm dogs in the Swiss Alps for drafting, herding, and companionship. Their calm, patient temperament and love of family make them exceptional companions, though their thick coat and tendency to shed require regular grooming and their large size demands careful consideration of living space and exercise needs." },
  "Great Dane": { "About": "Great Danes are massive, elegant dogs with a gentle disposition that has earned them the nickname gentle giants, standing among the tallest dog breeds in the world. Their impressive size is balanced by an affectionate, people-oriented nature that makes them wonderful family companions, though their short lifespan and potential health issues require dedicated and informed care from their owners." },
  "Mastiff": { "About": "Mastiffs are enormous, powerful guardian dogs with a history dating back to ancient civilizations, characterized by their massive build and protective instincts. Their imposing presence belies a gentle, loving nature with family, creating a devoted companion that requires early socialization and consistent training to manage their protective tendencies and significant size." },
  "Newfoundland": { "About": "Newfoundlands are massive, water-loving working dogs with thick, water-resistant coats and a legendary reputation for water rescue and incredible swimming abilities. Their exceptionally gentle temperament, often described as nanny-like with children, combines with remarkable strength and a natural instinct to protect, making them one of the most compassionate and reliable large breed companions." },
  "Akita": { "About": "Akitas are powerful, dignified dogs originating from Japan, known for their loyalty, strong-willed nature, and beautiful, thick double coats. Their deep devotion to family comes with a naturally protective instinct and an independent spirit that requires experienced owners who can provide consistent, respectful training and early socialization." },
  "Saint Bernard": { "About": "Saint Bernards are massive rescue dogs with a heroic history of saving travelers in the Swiss Alps, characterized by their gentle eyes and thick, weather-resistant coats. Their enormous size is coupled with an incredibly patient and gentle temperament, making them excellent family dogs despite their need for careful management due to potential health issues and significant space requirements." },
  "Bullmastiff": { "About": "Bullmastiffs are powerful guardian dogs with a muscular build and a history of protecting estates, combining strength with a surprisingly gentle disposition toward their family. Their protective instincts and imposing presence make them excellent deterrents to intruders, while their loyalty and affection create deep bonds with their owners, though they require consistent training and early socialization." },
  "Great Pyrenees": { "About": "Great Pyrenees are majestic, white-coated mountain dogs originally bred to guard livestock in the Pyrenees Mountains, combining impressive size with an innate protective instinct. Their calm, patient nature makes them excellent family guardians, though their independent thinking, substantial size, and thick coat require owners who understand and appreciate their working dog heritage and can provide consistent training and grooming." },
  "Irish Wolfhound": { "About": "Irish Wolfhounds are the tallest of all dog breeds, with a rich history as ancient Celtic hunting dogs used to pursue wolves and giant elk. Their gentle, dignified nature belies their massive size, creating a surprisingly sensitive companion that forms deep bonds with family while requiring spacious living arrangements and careful management of their relatively short lifespan." },
  "Greater Swiss Mountain Dog": { "About": "Greater Swiss Mountain Dogs are powerful, muscular working dogs originally bred for drafting, herding, and guarding in the Swiss Alps, characterized by their distinctive tri-color coat. Their strong work ethic combines with a gentle, family-oriented temperament, making them loyal companions who thrive on having a job to do and close connections with their human family." },
  "Anatolian Shepherd Dog": { "About": "Anatolian Shepherd Dogs are ancient livestock guardian breeds from Turkey, characterized by their large size, independent nature, and exceptional protective instincts developed over thousands of years of guarding herds against predators. Their naturally suspicious attitude toward strangers and strong protective drive require experienced owners who can provide consistent socialization and understand their deeply ingrained working dog mentality." },
  "Dogue de Bordeaux": { "About": "Dogue de Bordeaux are massive French mastiff-type dogs with distinctive massive heads, wrinkled faces, and a powerful build that reflects their historical roles in hunting, guarding, and fighting. Their surprisingly gentle disposition with family contrasts with their intimidating appearance, creating a loyal companion that forms deep bonds while requiring careful training to manage their protective instincts." },
  "Leonberger": { "About": "Leonbergers are massive, lion-like dogs with thick, water-resistant coats and a gentle, patient temperament that makes them exceptional family companions. Their impressive size is balanced by an incredibly gentle nature, particularly with children, though their substantial grooming needs and potential health issues require dedicated and informed care from their owners." },
  "Borzoi": { "About": "Borzois are elegant, long-legged sighthounds originally bred for hunting wolves in Russia, characterized by their graceful build and luxurious coat. Their independent nature and surprising sensitivity create a unique companion that combines aristocratic bearing with a surprisingly gentle temperament, though they require patient training and understanding of their naturally aloof personality." },
  "Boerboel": { "About": "Boerboels are powerful South African mastiff-type dogs bred to protect farms and families, combining immense strength with a deep loyalty to their owners. Their protective instincts and muscular build make them exceptional guardians, requiring experienced owners who can provide consistent training and socialization to channel their natural protective drives positively." },
  "Neopolitan Mastiff": { "About": "Neapolitan Mastiffs are massive, imposing dogs with incredible loose, wrinkled skin and a history of guarding that dates back to ancient Roman times. Their intimidating appearance masks a surprisingly gentle and devoted nature with family, though their significant size, potential health issues, and protective instincts demand experienced owners who can provide consistent training and care." }
};
