const sharkFacts = {
  "Tiger Shark": { "About": "Tiger sharks are large predators known for their distinctive dark stripes and ability to eat almost anything, including license plates and tires found in their stomachs. They can grow up to 14 feet long and are found in tropical and temperate waters worldwide." },
  "Bull Shark": { "About": "Bull sharks are notorious for their aggressive behavior and unique ability to survive in both saltwater and freshwater environments, even swimming far up rivers. Their stocky build and immense bite force make them one of the most dangerous shark species to humans." },
  "Great Hammerhead Shark": { "About": "The great hammerhead shark is distinguished by its unusually shaped head, which provides enhanced sensory capabilities for detecting prey. These magnificent creatures can grow up to 20 feet long and use their heads to pin stingrays to the seafloor before feeding." },
  "Sand Tiger Shark": { "About": "Despite their fearsome appearance with protruding teeth, sand tiger sharks are relatively docile and move slowly through the water. They have a unique reproductive strategy where embryos in the womb eat each other until only one remains in each uterine horn." },
  "Lemon Shark": { "About": "Lemon sharks get their name from their yellowish coloration, which provides excellent camouflage over sandy seafloors. They are highly social animals that form complex groups and can even recognize and prefer to associate with their shark friends." },
  "Blacktip Reef Shark": { "About": "Blacktip reef sharks are medium-sized sharks easily identified by the black tips on their fins, especially prominent on their dorsal fin. They are commonly seen in shallow waters near coral reefs and are known for spectacular feeding frenzies where they leap from the water while hunting." },
  "Caribbean Reef Shark": { "About": "Caribbean reef sharks are apex predators in coral reef ecosystems throughout the Caribbean Sea. They are curious but generally unaggressive toward humans, making them popular subjects for shark diving tourism." },
  "Whitetip Reef Shark": { "About": "Whitetip reef sharks are recognizable by the white tips on their dorsal and caudal fins, contrasting with their brownish-gray bodies. They are primarily nocturnal hunters that squeeze into crevices during the day and emerge at night to patrol the reef for sleeping fish." },
  "Blacktip Shark": { "About": "Blacktip sharks are known for their spectacular feeding behavior where they leap and spin out of water while hunting schools of fish. These medium-sized sharks have distinctive black tips on their fins and are frequently spotted near shorelines and in shallow waters, making them a common sight for beachgoers." },
  "Galapagos Shark": { "About": "Galapagos sharks are large requiem sharks found primarily around oceanic islands, particularly in the waters surrounding their namesake Galapagos Islands. They have an impressive ability to detect electrical signals from prey hidden beneath sand and can be quite bold around divers, occasionally displaying territorial behavior." },
  "Bonnethead Shark": { "About": "Bonnethead sharks are the smallest members of the hammerhead family, with a distinctive shovel or bonnet-shaped head that's more rounded than other hammerheads. These unique sharks are among the few omnivorous shark species, regularly consuming and digesting seagrass in addition to their diet of crustaceans and small fish." },
  "Grey Reef Shark": { "About": "Grey reef sharks are known for their distinctive threat display when they feel cornered, arching their backs, lowering their pectoral fins, and swimming in an exaggerated side-to-side motion. They form daytime social groups but become solitary hunters at night, patrolling coral reefs for prey with remarkable speed and agility." },
  "Horn Shark": { "About": "Horn sharks possess a short, blunt head with ridges over their eyes and two large dorsal fins with prominent spines that give them their name. These slow-moving bottom-dwellers are primarily nocturnal, spending their days hiding in crevices and emerging at night to feed on hard-shelled prey with their powerful crushing teeth." },
  "Spinner Shark": { "About": "Spinner sharks earned their name from their unique hunting strategy of spinning vertically through schools of fish while feeding, sometimes rotating up to three times before falling back into the water. They can reach speeds that launch them up to 20 feet into the air during these spectacular spins, making them one of the most acrobatic shark species." },
  "Broadnose Sevengill Shark": { "About": "Broadnose sevengill sharks are distinctive ancient-looking predators that, unlike most modern sharks, have seven gill slits instead of the typical five. These primitive sharks have a single dorsal fin set far back on their body and are opportunistic feeders known to hunt cooperatively in packs to take down larger prey, including other sharks and seals." },
  "Port Jackson Shark": { "About": "Port Jackson sharks are nocturnal bottom-dwellers with a distinctive harness-like pattern and pig-like snout equipped with crushing plates instead of sharp teeth. They possess a unique defensive spine in front of each dorsal fin that can inject mild venom, making them one of the few venomous shark species." },
  "Great White Shark": { "About": "Great white sharks are apex ocean predators capable of detecting a single drop of blood in 25 gallons of water and can swim at speeds up to 35 mph when attacking prey. Their massive bodies can grow over 20 feet long and weigh up to 4,500 pounds, with multiple rows of serrated teeth that are continually replaced throughout their lifetime." },
  "Whale Shark": { "About": "Whale sharks are the largest fish in the world, growing up to 40 feet long, yet they feed primarily on microscopic plankton that they filter from the water. Despite their enormous size, these gentle giants are known for their docile nature, allowing divers to swim alongside them as they cruise through warm tropical waters with their distinctive spotted pattern." },
  "Shortfin Mako Shark": { "About": "Shortfin mako sharks are the fastest sharks in the ocean, capable of bursts of speed exceeding 45 mph and known for their spectacular leaps of up to 30 feet out of the water. Their streamlined bodies, crescent-shaped tails, and core body temperature that runs warmer than the surrounding water give them the athletic prowess to chase down even the speediest prey like tuna and swordfish." },
  "Blue Shark": { "About": "Blue sharks are striking oceanic predators with deep indigo-blue backs, white underbellies, and extremely long, slender pectoral fins that help them navigate long migrations across entire ocean basins. These sleek sharks are among the most widely distributed shark species on the planet and can give birth to up to 100 pups at once, making them one of the most prolific shark reproducers." },
  "Oceanic Whitetip Shark": { "About": "Oceanic whitetip sharks are distinguished by their rounded, white-tipped fins and are notorious for being the species most often implicated in open-ocean attacks on shipwreck survivors. Once abundant throughout tropical seas, they have experienced catastrophic population declines of over 90% in some regions due to shark finning and bycatch in commercial fishing operations." },
  "Basking Shark": { "About": "Basking sharks are the second-largest fish in the sea and can filter more than 1,500 gallons of water per hour through their massive, gaping mouths as they cruise near the surface. Despite their intimidating size of up to 30 feet, these gentle plankton feeders pose no threat to humans and can often be spotted basking at the ocean surface, giving them their common name." },
  "Common Thresher Shark": { "About": "Common thresher sharks possess an extraordinarily long upper tail lobe that can be as long as their entire body, which they use as a whip to stun and herd schooling fish before feeding. These athletic sharks can stun multiple fish with a single powerful tail slap and are known for their large eyes, metallic coloration, and surprisingly shy behavior around humans despite their impressive hunting abilities." },
  "Scalloped Hammerhead Shark": { "About": "Scalloped hammerhead sharks have distinctively shaped heads with a central indentation that gives them their scalloped appearance and provides 360-degree vision plus enhanced electrical sensing capabilities. Unlike many shark species, they form large schools during daylight hours, sometimes numbering in the hundreds, before breaking into smaller groups or becoming solitary hunters at night." },
  "Silky Shark": { "About": "Silky sharks get their name from their smooth, silky skin texture and are among the most common large oceanic sharks, though their populations have declined dramatically due to fishing pressure. These sleek predators are known for their curiosity and boldness around divers and often follow tuna schools, making them frequent bycatch in tuna fisheries worldwide." },
  "Salmon Shark": { "About": "Salmon sharks are remarkable for their ability to maintain body temperatures up to 14°F warmer than the surrounding cold water, allowing them to hunt effectively in subarctic waters. These powerful, stocky sharks are close relatives of the great white shark and, as their name suggests, are voracious predators of salmon during their spawning runs in the North Pacific." },
  "Porbeagle Shark": { "About": "Porbeagle sharks are highly efficient predators with distinctive white patches on the rear edges of their dorsal fins and a streamlined body built for speed in cold temperate waters. Despite their fearsome hunting abilities, these intelligent sharks have been observed playing with floating objects and seaweed, suggesting complex behavior beyond simple predation." },
  "Dusky Shark": { "About": "Dusky sharks are large, powerful sharks that can grow up to 14 feet long and are known for their incredible longevity, potentially living up to 50 years. Their extremely slow reproductive rate—females don't reach maturity until around 20 years of age and produce only 3-14 pups every three years—makes them particularly vulnerable to overfishing and population decline." },
  "Silvertip Shark": { "About": "Silvertip sharks are instantly recognizable by the striking white margins on all their fins, which stand out against their gray-bronze bodies. These reef-associated predators are known for their aggressive behavior when feeding and their remarkable ability to execute rapid vertical movements from deep water to the surface when attacking prey." },
  "Longfin Mako Shark": { "About": "Longfin mako sharks are distinguished from their shortfin cousins by their oversized pectoral fins and are among the rarest of the major oceanic sharks. They possess the same endothermic adaptations as their more common relatives, allowing them to maintain warmer muscles for bursts of incredible speed, but their biology remains poorly understood due to limited sightings and specimens." },
  "Crocodile Shark": { "About": "Crocodile sharks are small, deep-water sharks named for their reptilian-looking eyes that glow green in the dark due to specialized light-reflecting tissues. Despite measuring only about 3 feet long, these mysterious sharks possess proportionally large teeth and are known for their remarkable vertical migrations, sometimes ascending from depths of over 1,000 feet to near-surface waters at night." },
  "Bronze Whaler Shark": { "About": "Bronze whaler sharks, also known as copper sharks, have a distinctive bronze-copper coloration that gives them their name and are known for participating in feeding frenzies alongside other shark species. These highly migratory sharks form large seasonal aggregations and have a unique hunting strategy of herding fish schools into tight bait balls before charging through to feed, sometimes even driving prey onto beaches." },
  "Goblin Shark": { "About": "Goblin sharks are living fossils with bizarre, protrusible jaws that can extend forward to capture prey in the deep, dark ocean. Their ghostly pink coloration and distinctively elongated, flattened snout make them among the most unusual-looking sharks, rarely seen by humans as they typically inhabit depths between 890 and 3,150 feet." },
  "Frilled Shark": { "About": "Frilled sharks are primitive-looking creatures with an eel-like body and 300 trident-shaped teeth arranged in 25 rows, earning them the nickname living fossil as they've remained largely unchanged for 80 million years. Their name comes from their six pairs of gill slits that have frilly edges, giving them a ruffled appearance unlike the typical five gill slits found in most modern sharks." },
  "Megamouth Shark": { "About": "Megamouth sharks are incredibly rare deep-sea filter feeders, with fewer than 100 specimens ever observed by scientists since their discovery in 1976. Their enormous mouths can expand to efficiently filter plankton and small fish while their bodies, which can reach up to 18 feet in length, are soft and flabby with minimal muscle development compared to their more active shark relatives." },
  "Greenland Shark": { "About": "Greenland sharks are the longest-living vertebrates on Earth, with some individuals estimated to be over 400 years old, reaching sexual maturity only after about 150 years. These Arctic dwellers move at an extremely slow pace—earning them the nickname sleeper sharks—and often have parasitic copepods attached to their eyes, which glow to attract prey while gradually rendering the shark blind." },
  "Cookiecutter Shark": { "About": "Cookiecutter sharks are small but fearsome parasites that use their specialized jaws to carve out perfect circular plugs of flesh from larger marine animals, including whales, dolphins, and even submarines. Their bioluminescent bodies glow green except for a dark collar around their throat, creating a clever lure that tricks larger predators into approaching from below, allowing the cookiecutter to attach and remove its cookie of flesh." },
  "Bluntnose Sixgill Shark": { "About": "Bluntnose sixgill sharks are ancient-looking predators that retain primitive features from their ancestors, including six gill slits instead of the typical five found in most modern sharks. These deep-water giants can grow up to 16 feet long and have remained virtually unchanged for millions of years, hunting at night near the ocean floor with a powerful sideways strike that creates suction to pull prey into their mouths." },
  "Angular Roughshark": { "About": "Angular roughsharks have an unmistakable humpbacked appearance with a flattened head and rough, thorn-like scales covering their distinctive triangular bodies. These unusual sharks excrete a foul-smelling oily substance from their skin that gives them their Portuguese name peixe porco (pig fish) and makes them unpalatable to predators in the deep waters of the eastern Atlantic." },
  "False Catshark": { "About": "False catsharks are mysterious deep-sea predators with enormous, oily livers that help them maintain neutral buoyancy in the crushing depths they inhabit. Despite their name suggesting otherwise, they are true sharks with distinctive features including large green eyes adapted for low light, an unusually long upper tail lobe, and the ability to inflate their stomachs with water or air when threatened." },
  "Dwarf Lanternshark": { "About": "Dwarf lanternsharks hold the title of world's smallest shark species, with adults measuring just 6-8 inches in length—small enough to fit in a human hand. These tiny deep-sea predators produce their own light through specialized organs called photophores scattered across their undersides, creating a form of camouflage called counterillumination that helps them blend into the faint light filtering down from above." },
  "Viper Dogfish": { "About": "Viper dogfish sharks possess extendable jaws packed with needle-like teeth that can swing forward to snatch prey in the dark depths of the ocean. These rare deep-sea dwellers have specialized light-producing organs along their bellies and can inflate their bodies with water when threatened, making them appear larger to potential predators." },
  "Ninja Lanternshark": { "About": "Ninja lanternsharks are named for their stealth-like black coloration that helps them remain nearly invisible in their deep-sea habitat. Discovered only in 2010, these small sharks (reaching just 18 inches in length) produce a faint bioluminescent glow from specialized organs called photophores that helps them camouflage against the dim light filtering from above." },
  "Pacific Sleeper Shark": { "About": "Pacific sleeper sharks are massive deep-water predators that can grow up to 14 feet long yet move with surprising stealth through near-freezing waters. Their flesh contains high levels of trimethylamine oxide, which becomes toxic when metabolized, rendering their meat inedible to humans but allowing these slow-moving giants to thrive in extreme cold without freezing." },
  "Japanese Sawshark": { "About": "Japanese sawsharks possess an elongated, toothed snout that resembles a saw, which they swing from side to side to stun and impale prey on the ocean floor. Unlike the more well-known sawfish, these rare bottom-dwelling sharks have a pair of unique barbels halfway along their snouts that act as sensory organs to detect hidden prey in sediment and seagrass beds." },
  "American Pocket Shark": { "About": "American pocket sharks are among the world's rarest sharks, with only two specimens ever documented, and are named for the unique pocket glands near their pectoral fins. These tiny sharks, measuring just 5.5 inches long, can secrete a bioluminescent fluid from their pocket glands, possibly to distract predators or attract prey in the deep ocean darkness." },
  "Swell Shark": { "About": "Swell sharks have the remarkable ability to inflate their bodies with water or air when threatened, swelling to nearly twice their normal size to wedge themselves into crevices where predators cannot extract them. These nocturnal hunters are also bioluminescent, producing a greenish glow that may help with species recognition in the dark and have distinctive saddle-like markings that provide excellent camouflage against the rocky reef habitats they inhabit." },
  "Velvet Belly Lanternshark": { "About": "Velvet belly lanternsharks have velvety-black undersides studded with luminous organs that create one of the most complex light displays of any shark species. These small deep-sea sharks also possess light-producing spines in front of their dorsal fins and can control their bioluminescence, using it for counterillumination camouflage or to communicate with potential mates in the darkness of the deep ocean." },
  "Nurse Shark": { "About": "Nurse sharks are bottom-dwelling creatures known for their sedentary nature, often found resting in groups under ledges and caves during daylight hours. Despite their docile appearance, they possess remarkably powerful suction ability that allows them to pull prey from tight crevices and have thousands of tiny, serrated teeth that effectively grip shellfish and crustaceans." },
  "Zebra Shark": { "About": "Zebra sharks undergo one of the most dramatic appearance changes of any shark species, born with zebra-like stripes that gradually transform into a pattern of leopard-like spots as they mature. These gentle, nocturnal hunters use their slender, flexible bodies to wriggle into tight reef crevices in search of crustaceans and mollusks, and can often be seen resting on the seafloor with their tails curled during the day." },
  "Tasselled Wobbegong": { "About": "Tasselled wobbegongs are master ambush predators with elaborate fringe-like structures around their mouths that mimic small marine organisms, attracting curious fish within striking distance. Their incredibly patterned bodies provide perfect camouflage against coral and rocky reef backgrounds, allowing them to remain virtually invisible until they launch their lightning-fast strike, capable of snatching prey in just 20 milliseconds." },
  "Leopard Shark": { "About": "Leopard sharks are instantly recognizable by their striking pattern of black saddle-like markings and spots against a silvery-bronze background. These social sharks often form large groups in shallow sandy bays along the Pacific coast of North America, where they use their specialized flat teeth to crush crabs, clams, and small fish they find while methodically swimming with their bodies at a distinctive angle to the seafloor." },
  "Epaulette Shark": { "About": "Epaulette sharks have evolved the remarkable ability to walk across coral reefs using their muscular pectoral and pelvic fins when tide pools become oxygen-depleted. These specialized sharks, named for the large black spot behind each pectoral fin that resembles military epaulettes, can survive without oxygen for hours, allowing them to hunt in tide pools where other predators cannot follow." },
  "Spotted Bamboo Shark": { "About": "Spotted bamboo sharks possess unusually flexible bodies that allow them to bend into U-shapes and push their heads into tight crevices in search of hidden prey. These small, nocturnal hunters have barbels near their nostrils that help them detect buried shellfish and crustaceans, and they're one of the few shark species that can survive out of water for several hours when stranded in tidal pools." },
  "Ornate Wobbegong": { "About": "Ornate wobbegongs are spectacular carpet sharks whose intricate patterns of spots, blotches, and swirls create nearly perfect camouflage against coral reef backgrounds. Their flat bodies and fringed lobes around the head allow them to disappear completely into their surroundings, where they lie motionless until unsuspecting prey swims too close to their surprisingly large mouths, which can open wide enough to swallow fish nearly as large as themselves." },
  "Tawny Nurse Shark": { "About": "Tawny nurse sharks are large, slow-moving bottom-dwellers that can pump water across their gills while remaining stationary, unlike most sharks that must swim to breathe. They possess curious whisker-like sensory barbels that help them locate prey hidden in sand, and their powerful pharyngeal jaw—a second set of jaws in their throat—allows them to create powerful suction to pull prey from tight spaces in coral reefs." },
  "Blind Shark": { "About": "Blind sharks aren't actually blind but have small, fully functional eyes that they rarely rely on, instead using an exceptional sense of electroreception to detect prey in murky waters and dark crevices. These nocturnal hunters can survive up to 18 hours out of water, a remarkable adaptation that allows them to wait out low tides in rock pools along the Australian coast." },
  "Slender Bamboo Shark": { "About": "Slender bamboo sharks have extraordinarily flexible bodies that allow them to squeeze through tight spaces between coral and rocks in search of hidden prey. These gentle nocturnal hunters use their specialized sensory barbels to detect tiny electrical fields produced by crustaceans and mollusks hiding in the sand, then use powerful suction to extract their prey." },
  "Spotted Wobbegong": { "About": "Spotted wobbegongs are master camouflage artists with ornate patterns of spots and blotches that perfectly mimic the light patterns on the seafloor, making them nearly invisible to both prey and predators. Their flattened bodies are adorned with elaborate dermal lobes around the head that break up their outline, while they patiently wait for unsuspecting fish to swim close enough for their lightning-fast ambush attack." },
  "Short-Tail Nurse Shark": { "About": "Short-tail nurse sharks possess exceptionally rough skin covered in enlarged dermal denticles that helps protect them from abrasive coral surfaces where they often rest. Unlike their more common nurse shark relatives, these nocturnal predators have a noticeably shorter caudal fin and are primarily found in the western Pacific Ocean, where they use their powerful suction feeding technique to extract prey from tight crevices." },
  "Japanese Wobbegong": { "About": "Japanese wobbegongs are distinctive carpet sharks with symmetrical color patterns that incorporate yellows, browns, and whites to create perfect camouflage against rocky and coral backgrounds. These ambush predators possess a fringe of branched dermal lobes around their heads that help disrupt their outline while they lie motionless on the seafloor, waiting to lunge at passing fish with remarkable speed and precision." },
  "Rusty Carpetshark": { "About": "Rusty carpetsharks are named for their reddish-brown coloration that helps them blend seamlessly with the algae-covered rocky reefs they inhabit along Australia's coastline. These small, secretive sharks are primarily nocturnal and spend their days hidden in caves or under ledges, emerging at night to use their specialized teeth for crushing the hard shells of crustaceans and mollusks." },
  "Cobbler Wobbegong": { "About": "Cobbler wobbegongs have distinctive honeycomb-like patterns across their bodies and are named after the patchwork appearance of a cobbler's work, providing exceptional camouflage in their reef habitats. These Australian ambush predators possess an unusually wide mouth that can open larger than their head circumference, allowing them to swallow surprisingly large prey whole after patiently waiting motionless for hours." },
  "Australian Marbled Catshark": { "About": "Australian marbled catsharks have intricate marble-like patterns that provide perfect camouflage against the algae-covered rocky reefs where they dwell along Australia's southern coast. These small, secretive sharks lay spiral-shaped egg cases that attach to seaweed or sponges with tendrils, and unlike many shark species, the females return periodically to check on their eggs until they hatch." }
};
