const flowerFacts = {
  "Marigold": { "About": "Marigolds (genus Tagetes) produce blooms all summer with virtually no care, and their pungent scent even repels many garden pests. In Mexico, marigold flowers (cempasúchil) are famously used on Day of the Dead altars—their bright orange color and musky fragrance are believed to help lead ancestral spirits back." },
  "Petunia": { "About": "Petunias are one of America’s favorite bedding flowers, thriving in containers and borders with nonstop blooms. Along with impatiens, geraniums and a few other staples, petunias rank among the top-selling annuals—these six popular kinds make up nearly half of all garden annuals sold in the U.S.?" },
  "Sunflower": { "About": "The common sunflower (Helianthus annuus) can tower over a garden—often 6–10 feet tall—with huge golden heads that turn toward the sun. Sunflowers are not only ornamental; they are also grown as a major crop for seeds and oil, and a single sunflower head is composed of hundreds of tiny individual florets full of nectar for bees." },
  "Pansy": { "About": "Pansies are cool-season annuals known for their “faces” and cold tolerance, often brightening spring and fall gardens when few other flowers bloom. The name “pansy” comes from the French pensée (“thought”), and in the language of flowers pansies symbolize remembrance and free thinking." },
  "Impatiens": { "About": "Beloved for shady gardens, impatiens produce masses of cheerful blooms in reds, pinks, and whites even in low light. Impatiens earned the nickname “Busy Lizzie” for their constant flowering, and their ripe seed pods burst open at a touch—hence the Latin name meaning “impatient.”" },
  "Geranium": { "About": "Common garden “geraniums” (actually Pelargonium hybrids) are classic potted and bedding plants with clusters of red, pink, or white blooms. They were brought to U.S. gardens from South Africa centuries ago and remain popular for their heat tolerance and the citrusy, deer-resistant smell of their leaves." },
  "Begonia": { "About": "Wax begonias thrive in shady beds or baskets, sporting fleshy leaves and continuous blooms of white, pink or red. They require almost no deadheading or pruning—simply planting these “set-and-forget” flowers guarantees color until frost, and their tubers can even be saved to regrow next year?." },
  "Zinnia": { "About": "Zinnias are easy-to-grow annuals that come in every color of the rainbow and attract butterflies to the garden. In 2016, a zinnia made history as the first flower to bloom in outer space: astronauts successfully grew a bright orange zinnia aboard the International Space Station." },
  "Snapdragon": { "About": "Snapdragons (Antirrhinum) feature tall spikes of bright flowers that “snap” open when squeezed, delighting children. They prefer the cooler seasons and can survive light frosts—gardeners often plant them in early spring, and their spicy-sweet scented blooms were traditionally used to make natural dyes." },
  "Sweet Pea": { "About": "Sweet peas are old-fashioned climbing annuals treasured for their intense fragrance and delicate winged blossoms. Popular since Victorian times, sweet pea flowers symbolize blissful pleasure, and as cut flowers they fill a room with a sweet, intoxicating scent reminiscent of honey and orange blossoms." },
  "Nasturtium": { "About": "Nasturtiums are fast-growing annual vines or mounding plants with round leaves and funnel-shaped flowers in bold reds, oranges and yellows. Beyond their looks, they are edible flowers - both leaves and blossoms have a peppery taste and are often added to salads, carrying a dose of Vitamin C and acting as a natural pest trap in the veggie garden." },
  "Morning Glory": { "About": "Morning glories are vigorous climbing annual vines known for their trumpet-shaped blooms that unfurl at dawn and close by afternoon. A favorite of cottage gardens, the heavenly blue variety even traveled to space on the Space Shuttle in 1990, where its seeds surprisingly produced blossoms with altered growth patterns due to microgravity." },
  "California Poppy": { "About": "The California poppy (Eschscholzia californica) is a drought-tolerant wildflower with silky orange blooms that open under the sun. As the state flower of California, it famously carpets hillsides each spring—during “superbloom” years, countless California poppies turn entire landscapes brilliant orange, a natural spectacle celebrated each April 6 on California Poppy Day." },
  "Bluebonnet": { "About": "Texas bluebonnet (Lupinus texensis) is a lupine wildflower with vivid blue pea-like blossoms that blanket Texas fields every spring. Chosen as the Texas state flower, bluebonnets were widely seeded along highways by Lady Bird Johnson’s programs, and many Texans take annual family photos in the iconic bluebonnet blooms." },
  "Sweet Alyssum": { "About": "Sweet alyssum forms low carpets of tiny white, lavender, or pink flowers and exudes a honey-like fragrance. Often used as a delicate edging plant, it’s loved by pollinators and can reseed to return year after year; during World War I, sweet alyssum was even planted in war gardens to attract beneficial insects and mask the scent of trenches with its sweet smell." },
  "Cornflower": { "About": "Cornflower (Centaurea cyanus), or bachelor’s button, is a classic wildflower bearing crisp blue blossoms that were once common in European grain fields (hence the name). Worn in the buttonholes of bachelors in love according to folklore, cornflowers are also a symbol of remembrance (it’s the national flower of Estonia) and have been used to add a blue tint to teas and vinegars." },
  "Rose": { "About": "The rose is perhaps the most popular perennial flower in the U.S., revered for its beauty and fragrance—it’s even the national floral emblem. With thousands of cultivated varieties, roses have been cherished since ancient times; fossil evidence shows roses 35 million years old, and rose petals were found in the tombs of Egyptian pharaohs, underscoring their timeless appeal." },
  "Tulip": { "About": "Tulips are spring-blooming bulb perennials that paint gardens with bold cups of color. Originating in Central Asia and famously prized in Holland, tulips once sparked “Tulipmania” in the 17th century when rare bulbs became as valuable as houses. While modern tulips are often treated as annuals, many varieties will return for several years if winters are cold enough." },
  "Daffodil": { "About": "Daffodils (Narcissus) are hardy spring perennials known for their bright yellow trumpets that herald the end of winter. They contain a natural chemical (lycorine) that makes them deer and rodent resistant, and according to legend, the first daffodil sprang from the vanity of the Greek youth Narcissus—giving the flower its botanical name and association with rebirth and new beginnings." },
  "Hydrangea": { "About": "Hydrangeas are flowering shrubs famous for their billowy clusters of pink, blue, or white blooms that can last for months. Uniquely, some hydrangea varieties act like natural pH testers: the flower color can change based on soil acidity (blue in acidic soil, pink in alkaline). A single plant can live decades in the landscape, making it a cherished pass-along plant in many American families." },
  "Shasta Daisy": { "About": "Shasta daisy (Leucanthemum × superbum) carries the classic “white petals and yellow center” look of daisies on a robust perennial plant. It was actually created by American horticulturist Luther Burbank around 1901, who bred it from four different wild daisy species and named it after Mount Shasta for its snowy white petals. Shasta daisies are vigorous and carefree, spreading to form cheerful drifts that return each year." },
  "Lily": { "About": "True lilies (Lilium species) grow from bulbs and bear large, often freckled, trumpet-shaped flowers—like the Easter lily or the fragrant Oriental lilies. Each lily bulb can produce new “baby” bulbs underground, so a clump can multiply over time. Lilies are so revered that the city of Florence, Italy, uses a red lily (iris) as its emblem, and the white Madonna lily has symbolized purity in art and literature for centuries." },
  "Lavender": { "About": "Lavender (Lavandula) is a shrubby perennial herb cherished for its soothing fragrance and spikes of purple flowers. Long used in aromatherapy and medicine, lavender oil has natural antiseptic properties - it’s said that Victorian lavender growers avoided cholera outbreaks due to constant contact with the oil. Even pests dislike it: the aroma repels mosquitoes and moths, making lavender a lovely and practical garden addition." },
  "Peony": { "About": "Peonies are long-lived perennials with lush, extravagant blooms that can measure over 6 inches across and release a lovely fragrance. A single peony plant can bloom annually for generations—some peony clumps at old homesteads are over 100 years old. In the Victorian language of flowers, peonies symbolize a happy marriage, which is why their voluminous blooms are popular in spring weddings." },
  "Iris": { "About": "Irises are named after the Greek goddess of the rainbow for their variety of colors, from deep purple and blue to yellow and white. The bearded iris, common in U.S. gardens, has a unique “landing pad” of fuzzy hairs that guides pollinators. Orris root (from certain iris rhizomes) has been used in perfumery and even to flavor gin, demonstrating this elegant flower’s practical side." },
  "Daylily": { "About": "Daylilies (Hemerocallis) are ultra-tough perennials whose lily-like blooms last only one day each—but each plant produces many buds for an extended show. Often called the “perfect perennial,” common orange daylilies escaped gardens and now naturalize along roadsides across the U.S. (sometimes nicknamed “ditch lilies”). Hybridizers have developed thousands of varieties, and some modern daylilies even rebloom later in the season." },
  "Dahlia": { "About": "Dahlias are tuberous-rooted perennials famed for their spectacular flower heads, which can range from tiny pompoms to huge “dinner plate” dahlias nearly a foot wide. Native to Mexico (and its national flower), dahlias were cultivated by the Aztecs for food and ornament. Today they’re prized in flower shows - for example, the annual San Francisco Dahlia Show displays the city’s official flower, showcasing the incredible spectrum of colors and forms this plant can produce." },
  "Chrysanthemum": { "About": "Garden chrysanthemums (“mums”) are the quintessential fall flower, blooming in late summer and autumn with dense cushions of yellow, orange, purple, or white. First cultivated in China over 2,500 years ago, mums were said to have such life-giving properties that an ancient Chinese city was named Ju-Xian, meaning “Chrysanthemum City.” They’re also the birth flower for November, symbolizing optimism and joy." },
  "Coneflower": { "About": "Purple coneflower (Echinacea purpurea) is a native prairie perennial with daisy-like purple petals around a spiky brown cone. Tolerant of drought and heat, it’s a staple of wildflower gardens and also widely known as a medicinal herb – Echinacea extracts from the roots and leaves are popular immune-boosting supplements. Pollinators flock to coneflowers, and their seed heads provide food for goldfinches in fall and winter?." },
  "Columbine": { "About": "Columbine (Aquilegia) is a woodland perennial with elegant, spurred flowers that often appear bi-colored (for example, red and yellow in the wild Eastern columbine). Colorado’s state flower is the blue Rocky Mountain columbine, so cherished that picking one in the wild was made illegal. The genus name comes from Aquila, meaning eagle, because the flower’s spurs resemble an eagle’s talons, and the common name “columbine” comes from columba (dove) - the inverted blooms were thought to look like five doves clustering together." },
  "Milkweed": { "About": "Butterfly milkweed (Asclepias tuberosa) is a bright orange native perennial and a vital host plant for monarch butterflies, whose caterpillars feed exclusively on milkweeds?. Unlike the milky sap of other milkweeds, this species lacks the latex sap (hence the name “butterfly weed”), making it easier to handle. Its blooms are not only beautiful but also act as a lifesaving nursery for monarchs—planting it helps support the iconic butterfly’s life cycle." },
  "Bleeding Heart": { "About": "Old-fashioned bleeding heart (Dicentra spectabilis) adorns shaded gardens with dangling pink heart-shaped flowers each spring. The plant’s romantic blooms have inspired folklore: one tale imagines a prince (the flower’s “heart”) trying to woo a maiden with gifts (the inner petals resemble a slipper and a dangled earring) before he tragically “bleeds” for her love - thus the bleeding heart. After blooming, the ferny foliage often goes dormant in summer heat, a natural lifecycle quirk of this ephemeral perennial." },
  "Forget-Me-Not": { "About": "The woodland forget-me-not (Myosotis sylvatica) is a dainty biennial that creates a cloud of tiny sky-blue flowers in spring. According to medieval legend, the forget-me-not got its name from a tragic love story—a knight drowning in a river tossed the flowers to his lady on shore and cried “Forget me not!” as he sank. Ever since, this little bloom has symbolized remembrance and faithful love (and it readily self-seeds, ensuring it won’t be forgotten in your garden)." },
  "Evening Primrose": { "About": "Common evening primrose (Oenothera biennis) opens its yellow, sweet-scented flowers at dusk, attracting night-flying moths. By day the blooms often close or fade, lasting just one evening. This hardy wildflower’s seeds are rich in gamma-linolenic acid (GLA); Native Americans and later herbalists used evening primrose for ailments, and today its oil is a popular dietary supplement. It’s a self-sowing biennial that can pop up year after year once introduced to a site." },
  "Foxglove": { "About": "Common foxglove (Digitalis purpurea) sends up tall spires of bell-shaped purple or white flowers in its second year, then dies after seeding. Despite its beauty, the entire plant is poisonous - however, in small doses the cardiac glycosides in foxglove leaves are a potent medicine (the source of the drug digitalis, used to strengthen heart contractions?). The name “foxglove” comes from folklore that foxes wore the blossoms on their paws like gloves to silence their footsteps while hunting." },
  "Hollyhock": { "About": "Hollyhocks are old cottage-garden favorites that grow towering spikes (6–8 feet tall) of large crępe-textured blooms in their second year. Heirloom varieties are so enduring that they often self-sow around old homesteads. In fact, hollyhocks were once nicknamed “outhouse flowers” - pioneers planted them to hide outhouses, and a stand of tall hollyhocks was a subtle signal of where the privy was located." },
  "Sweet William": { "About": "Sweet William (Dianthus barbatus) forms low clusters of fringed flowers in clove-like scents and rich colors like magenta, red, and white. Often grown alongside its perennial carnation cousins, this biennial was cultivated in colonial American gardens. Its name’s origin is debated: some say it honors Prince William, Duke of Cumberland, in the 18th century while others romantically link it to William Shakespeare?. Either way, these “pinks” add old-fashioned charm and are excellent for cutting." },
  "Canterbury Bells": { "About": "Canterbury bells (Campanula medium) produce showy, bell-shaped flowers in shades of violet-blue, pink, or white that earned them their churchly name. Grown in English cottage gardens since at least the 1500s, they were often planted along pilgrimage routes to Canterbury. A special form called the “Cup and Saucer” Canterbury bell has an extra frilly calyx under each bell, making the blooms look like little teacups on saucers - a delightful quirk that showcases this plant’s old-fashioned charm." },
  "Black-Eyed Susan": { "About": "Black-eyed Susan (Rudbeckia hirta) is usually grown as an easy annual or short-lived perennial, but in the wild it often behaves as a biennial—rosettes the first year, golden blooms the next. As Maryland’s state flower, its golden petals and dark center “eye” are iconic in summer meadows. The name comes from an Old English poem by John Gay, in which the flower symbolizes a maiden (Susan) reunited with her lover (Sweet William), forever linking those two flower names in horticulture lore." },
  "Honesty": { "About": "Honesty (Lunaria annua), also known as the money plant, bears purple or white flowers in spring of its second year, but it’s most famous for what comes after: flat silvery seed pods that resemble coins. These papery translucent discs have symbolized transparency and sincerity (hence “honesty”) in folklore. Often used in dried arrangements, the seed pods remain attractive through winter and rattle in the wind; in fact, English settlers brought money plant to America, and it now grows wild in many regions, lending “coins” to the roadside flora." },
  "Sweet Rocket": { "About": "Dame’s rocket (Hesperis matronalis) is a fragrant biennial wildflower that produces phlox-like clusters of purple, pink, or white blooms in late spring of its second year. Brought from Europe in the 17th century (Thomas Jefferson grew it at Monticello), it has since naturalized across North America. The name “dame’s rocket” reflects its swift growth (rocket) and its popularity in ladies’ ornamental gardens (dame’s). Its evening scent intensifies, perfuming the air—however, in some areas it’s considered invasive, so it’s both admired and cautiously managed." },
  "Queen Anne’s Lace": { "About": "Queen Anne’s lace (Daucus carota) is the wild biennial form of the carrot, with lacy white flower umbels that bloom in the second year. Folklore claims the name honors Queen Anne of England, who pricked her finger while tatting lace—a drop of her blood is said to be the tiny red floret often seen at the flower’s center. Interestingly, the familiar orange carrot was bred from this wild ancestor; if left unharvested, a garden carrot will eventually produce its own Queen Anne’s lace bloom, completing its biennial cycle." },
  "Wallflower": { "About": "English wallflower (Erysimum cheiri) is a biennial flower that, true to its name, can grow in the crevices of old stone walls. It has been a staple of spring gardens for centuries, valued for its richly sweet fragrance and warm colors of yellow, orange, and russet. The plant’s tendency to hug walls at medieval dances led to the term “wallflower” for a person who remains at the sidelines. In the 19th century, Victorian gardeners also prized wallflowers as one of the first blooms of spring, often planting them in autumn so they’d overwinter and flower abundantly come April." },
  "Teasel": { "About": "Common teasel (Dipsacus fullonum) is a tall biennial weed with prickly stems and cone-shaped flower heads packed with tiny lavender blooms. In its second year, teasel’s dried seed heads have hooked bracts that were once used to card wool, acting like natural combs (the word “teasel” stems from Old English t?sel, meaning “to tease [cloth]”). While teasel can be invasive, its architecturally interesting seed heads are beloved by crafters for dried arrangements and by goldfinches that feast on its abundant seeds in winter." },
  "Angelica": { "About": "Great angelica (Angelica archangelica) is a statuesque biennial herb that produces towering umbrella-like clusters of greenish-white flowers in its second year, sometimes reaching 6 feet. Historically, angelica was reputed to have angelic powers: a 17th-century legend says an angel revealed it as a cure for plague. The plant indeed has medicinal uses (as a digestive aid), and its candied stalks have long decorated cakes. In colonial America, farmers even used angelica as a natural insect repellent, hanging bundles in stables to ward off flies." },
  "Cow Parsnip": { "About": "Cow parsnip (Heracleum maximum) is the largest native biennial wildflower in North America, with huge umbrella-like flower clusters a foot across and leaves the size of dinner plates. It was named Heracleum after Hercules for its giant stature. Indigenous peoples ate the young stems in small quantities (after careful preparation to remove acrid sap) and used the hollow stalks as flutes. Hikers admire its majestic blooms, but caution: like its relative giant hogweed, cow parsnip’s sap can cause skin irritation in sunlight, a trait that reminds one that even giants need respect." },
  "Mullein": { "About": "Common mullein (Verbascum thapsus) forms a rosette of fuzzy, silver-gray leaves its first year and in the second year shoots up a tall spike (up to 8 feet) studded with small yellow flowers. Early American settlers nicknamed it “flannel leaf” for its soft, woolly foliage, using the leaves in folk remedies for coughs and congestion. Resourceful pioneers also dipped dried mullein flower stalks in tallow to make temporary torches or “candlewick” - giving this adaptable biennial another old name: candlewick plant." },
  "Iceland Poppy": { "About": "Iceland poppies (Papaver nudicaule) are short-lived perennials often grown as biennials, valued for their crinkled, silky petals in sherbet shades of orange, peach, yellow, and white. Native to subarctic regions, they thrive in cool summers; American gardeners often sow them one year for a gorgeous display the next spring. These poppies were once a staple in Arctic expeditions’ diets - not as food, but as a quick source of vitamin C, since the petals are surprisingly high in the vitamin and were brewed into teas to prevent scurvy." },
  "Virginia Bluebells": { "About": "Virginia bluebells (Mertensia virginica) carpet moist woodlands in early spring with their nodding clusters of blooms that start pink and turn sky-blue. These ephemeral perennials emerge quickly and vanish by early summer. A threatened species in some areas due to habitat loss?, bluebells are beloved by gardeners and bumblebees alike - their tubular blossoms provide a vital nectar source for queen bumblebees that happen to be out early foraging." },
  "Dutchman’s Breeches": { "About": "Dutchman’s breeches (Dicentra cucullaria) is a tiny woodland wildflower whose white blooms look like little pantaloons hung upside-down on the line. The unique shape isn’t just whimsical; it shelters pollen from rain and only a specific pollinator can reach its nectar. In fact, only the female bumblebee with a long enough tongue can access the nectar deep in the breeches’ spur, pollinating the flower in the process. After its brief early-spring flowering, the plant disappears by summer, living on in its underground tubers." },
  "Bloodroot": { "About": "Bloodroot (Sanguinaria canadensis) is one of the first wildflowers of spring, often blooming through leaf litter in March with pristine white petals around a yellow center. Each flower lasts only a day or two, and at night or in cold rain the petals close up protectively?. It gets its name from its underground rhizome, which oozes red sap when cut. Indigenous peoples used bloodroot’s red-orange juice as a natural dye and in medicinal salves, though the plant is toxic if ingested." },
  "Spring Beauty": { "About": "Spring beauty (Claytonia virginica) is a delicate spring ephemeral whose five white or pale pink petals are marked with fine pink veins as if hand-painted. These tiny flowers (often only 1/2 inch across) open on sunny days and close at night, dotting forest floors and lawns in early spring. The plant’s small underground tubers (sometimes called “fairy spuds”) are actually edible and were a minor food source for Native Americans, though their size makes them more of a trailside nibble than a meal. By late spring, the blossoms and grass-like leaves fade away until the following year." },
  "Trout Lily": { "About": "Trout lily (Erythronium americanum) is named for the mottled pattern on its leaves, which resembles brook trout skin. This little lily pops up in rich woods and streamsides, showing one nodding yellow flower per plant. A colony of trout lilies can be extremely long-lived—the patch slowly spreads by underground bulbs, and some colonies in the Eastern U.S. are estimated to be over 100 years old. Despite their brief bloom time (a week or two in early spring), they are important early nectar sources. Fun fact: trout lilies often take several years to mature from seed to flowering, so a blooming colony is a sign of an undisturbed, older forest." },
  "Red Trillium": { "About": "Red trillium (Trillium erectum), also called stinking Benjamin, is a spring woodland flower with a trio of maroon-red petals above three mottled leaves. It emits a faint odor of rotting flesh to attract its pollinators—carrion flies—an adaptation many find gross but fascinating. Despite the smell, trilliums are beloved harbingers of spring in forests. They are slow-growing and sensitive to picking or digging (a picked trillium may not survive), which is why they’re protected in some states. As the flowers fade, the plant disappears by midsummer, resting until the next spring’s awakening." },
  "Lily-of-the-Valley": { "About": "Lily-of-the-valley (Convallaria majalis) is a shade-loving perennial often called an ephemeral because its foliage tends to die back as summer heat arrives. In mid-spring it produces sprays of dainty bell-shaped white flowers famous for an intoxicating, sweet perfume. Despite its innocent appearance, the entire plant is poisonous - however, its fragrance has made it beloved for centuries (it’s a traditional wedding bouquet flower, chosen by brides like Princess Kate Middleton). In folklore, lily-of-the-valley is said to spring from the tears of the Virgin Mary, symbolizing sweetness and the return of happiness." },
  "Crocus": { "About": "Crocuses are small spring-blooming corms that are often the first flowers to poke through snow, sometimes blooming as early as February. A patch of purple, gold, and white crocus cups opening in late winter sun is a welcome sign of spring’s approach. Interestingly, the spice saffron comes from a type of crocus (Crocus sativus); each flower of that crocus yields only three tiny saffron threads (stigmas), which helps explain why saffron is one of the world’s most expensive spices. After blooming, crocus grass-like leaves fatten the corm for a few weeks before the plants retreat underground for the rest of the year." },
  "Snowdrop": { "About": "Snowdrops (Galanthus nivalis) live up to their name by emerging through melting snow with nodding white flowers, often in late winter. These petite bulbs have specialized “anti-freeze” proteins that let them survive freezing nights. Snowdrops have been cherished since Victorian times - there’s even a word “galanthophile” for a collector obsessed with snowdrop varieties. One legend says that when Adam and Eve were cast out of the Garden of Eden into winter, an angel turned falling snowflakes into snowdrop flowers to give them hope; thus, snowdrops symbolize hope and rebirth, a fitting message delivered each year as they bloom and fade in the span of a few weeks." },
  "Desert Sunflower": { "About": "Desert sunflower (Geraea canescens), also called desert gold, is an annual ephemeral that bursts into bloom after rare heavy rains in the Southwest deserts. In places like Death Valley, this plant’s seeds can lie dormant for years until conditions are just right—then millions of bright yellow daisies carpet the desert floor in a “superbloom,” astonishing those who think of deserts as barren. Each bloom is fleeting under the harsh sun, and by late spring the entire population dries up and virtually disappears, surviving only as seeds waiting for the next rain miracle. This boom-and-bust life strategy allows desert ephemerals like the desert sunflower to flourish despite an extreme environment." },
  "Starflower": { "About": "Starflower (Trientalis borealis) is a delicate understory plant named for its starry white flowers. Uniquely, it’s a “plant of sevens”—often bearing seven pointed petals, seven stamens, and even seven leaves in a whorl. Blooming in late spring in cool forests, starflowers spread slowly by runners to form a thin carpet. They have no nectar and depend on wind pollination, so their charm is purely visual. By midsummer, they slip back into dormancy, their constellation of stars gone until the following spring." },
  "Shooting Star": { "About": "Shooting star (Dodecatheon meadia) is a prairie and woodland ephemeral whose unusual flowers resemble tiny shooting stars falling to earth. In late spring it sends up leafless stems with multiple pink or white reflexed-petal flowers that point backwards while the yellow center points downwards. Bumblebees pollinate these by a method called “buzz pollination,” shaking the flowers to release pollen. After a brief bloom period, the whole plant disappears by midsummer. Gardeners prize shooting stars in wildflower gardens, and it’s interestingly related to primroses (and sometimes classified in genus Primula now), even though it looks so different." },
  "Hepatica": { "About": "Round-lobed hepatica (Anemone americana) is a petite spring wildflower named for its three-lobed leaves that resemble a human liver (“hepatic” means liver-like). Under old medical doctrine of signatures, this resemblance led people to believe hepatica could treat liver ailments. It blooms very early, often while snow still lingers, with starry flowers that can be white, pink, lavender, or deep purple. The buds and stems are covered in fine hairs that provide insulation against frosty nights. Once the trees leaf out and shade the forest, hepatica’s flowers are long gone, and its leaves, having overwintered from the previous year, soon get replaced by fresh ones that will persist into next spring." },
  "Pasque Flower": { "About": "The pasque flower (Pulsatilla patens), also called prairie crocus, is a silky, lavender-purple wildflower that blooms on the plains and prairies often around Easter (hence “pasque,” meaning Easter). It’s the state flower of South Dakota and a welcome sight soon after the snow melts. Covered in fine hairs, the entire plant is adapted to cold - the hairy coating provides warmth and protection from spring frosts. Indigenous Lakota people called it “hosh kecampte” (meaning “smells like a buffalo”), and indeed the pasque flower has a musky scent to attract early spring bees. By summer it forms fluffy seed heads and then disappears, waiting through the hot season and winter to rise again at the next paschal time." },
  "Jack-in-the-Pulpit": { "About": "Jack-in-the-pulpit (Arisaema triphyllum) is a curious woodland plant consisting of a green or purple-striped hood (the “pulpit”) sheltering a club-like spadix (“Jack”) inside. It appears in spring and often goes dormant by late summer. Fascinatingly, these plants can change their sex from year to year: a smaller or stressed plant produces only male flowers (Jack stays “Jack”), but a vigorous plant with enough energy will produce female flowers (becoming “Jill-in-the-pulpit” with berries after bloom). This sequential hermaphroditism in Jack-in-the-pulpits means one year’s “Jack” might be next year’s “Jill,” depending on conditions - a unique strategy in the plant kingdom." },
  "Sand Verbena": { "About": "Desert sand verbena (Abronia villosa) is a low-growing sand dune wildflower that blooms quickly after desert winter rains, forming fragrant clusters of pinkish-purple flowers. At dusk, its sweet scent intensifies and can perfume the night air, luring moths. Large “fields” of sand verbena sometimes bloom in desert valleys during superblooms, painting the sand pastel pink. But like many desert ephemerals, their show is short-lived—within weeks of flowering and setting seed, the plants wither away. The seeds remain buried in the sand, enduring possibly years of drought until the next opportunity when rain and conditions align for another round of dazzling but ephemeral beauty." }
};
